Alright, I'm taking a look at a student
project here. He is getting a 500 error
and doesn't know why. I just got a message
from him. It looks like he's having a
problem with Thymeleaf template, so
I've just forked his repository and open
it up and IntelliJ. That's as far as I've
looked at this point. So we're going to go
through a little live coding exercise
and see if we can figure out what's
going on here. So, let's go ahead and
actually run the application. See what we
get. So IntelliJ is starting up right now.
Yeah, let's see here. I'm looking for
MySQL. So let's take that quick look
here. That's root admin. So let's go ahead
and start up MySQL. Thought I had a MySQL
instance here, that I could use. Let's pause
this while I get MySQL cooking. Okay, took
a second to set up MySQL database in a
Docker container. I had to go in add in a
database of a user, so now we have that
up, and let's go ahead and take a look at
the application. It doesn't have any
data loading. So let's take
a closer look. So it's not getting any
data initialized. Take a look and see why
that is...
Let's see if its categories and unit of measures got loaded.
Okay, so categories and unit of measures got loaded but he
doesn't have any recipes loading. Let's
take a look at the Controller. Recipe new... Create any recipe... okay, so now we have
a recipe.
Now it's problem with ingredients, so
we added ingredients on view. So
let's see. It doesn't have any functionality implemented right now for adding ingredients.
So a recipe of one. We can go ahead and add
one manually. So we can see that I'm
using Sequel Pro to go in and just
update the record so I'm connecting to
the same MySQL database. So let's see if
we actually have that now. Okay, I think
this is it.
Line 97 column 41, so that's a problem
with the Thymeleaf template. So let's
take a closer look at this inside of
IntelliJ now. Now I'm replicating the error that it reported. Property umo. Let's
take a closer look at this. domain, Ingredient.
umo but he has uom. So it looks like
that's a problem with the template. Let's
go ahead and fix that. Looks like just a
typo. Line 97 so it's got to get him out.
Yeah let's go ahead and going to restart
this. I got that. Let's go here. See if we
can fix this uom. So he does have a getDescription there. No
property. Lets double check this on Ingredient. Okay, so he's got this. Problem
is that there's no getter or setter for
it, so just looking through there, so I've
come in. So now we have to getUom. Now
let's double check this template here. And
it should be, I'll just use
description. You shouldn't have to...
I think you can optionally use.
So you can use the dot navigation there.
And let's go ahead and restart this.
See if this works now. Back up and
running, so come over here, hit a refresh,
and there we are. So it's now rendering
properly. So ultimately the main problem
was two things, two faults, had a typo
here in umo
rather than uom and that getDescription probably would work too. But
I just preferred to use the no strict
dot notation. And then the other problem
was UnitOfMeasure,
I'm sorry, Ingredient
and the uom property but it didn't have
the getters and setters. So between that,
obviously, you can't access a private
property without getters and setters, so
that's why that was failing even
without the typo. So a couple of
minor errors there and now we're
clearing things up. I'm going to go in.
I'll commit this into GitHub and send
the student in a pull request so that
they can see the problem.